You're not making as much money as you
want because you're not saying the right
words or saying them the right way.
Saying the right words comes down to the
correct scripting. [music] Saying them
the right way comes down to tone. This
video I'll explain what I've learned
over 14 years of selling stuff. 8 weeks
ago I just did a launch. We did $106
million in 72 hours and we broke the
Guinness Book World Record for the
fastest selling non-fiction of all time
and became fourth of all books of all
time. Either way, right now you're not
making as much money as you want because
you're saying things the wrong way. So,
let me give you an example. So, if I
said, "I didn't say he hit his wife. I
didn't say he hit his wife. I didn't say
he hit his wife. I didn't say he hit his
wife." Four different ways of saying
that statement all have four different
very different meanings. And so, if
right now you're like, "Man, I I I got
this script or I wrote this out of how
I'm supposed to say this stuff and
people aren't buying." It's like because
they think that you're telling them that
you hit your wife. That's not really it.
But they're they're not doing it because
the words you're saying aren't
communicating the meaning that you think
they are. And so tone is a huge
difference in terms of pitching in terms
of one to many setting or just in a
one-on-one conversation. And so a lot of
the things that teach around tone are
super amorphous and very confusing. And
I know this because as I came up, I
would hear things like curiosity tone,
aggressive tone, laid-back tone. And I
was like, what does any of this actually
mean? And so, number one is that in
order to do any of this, you must have a
script. Duh. If you don't have a script,
get a script. I have whole videos on
this closer framework, and you can walk
through that. Clarify whether they're
there, label them the problem, overview
past experience, sell the vacation with
a three-step pitch, then transition into
explaining away their concerns,
reinforce the decision. That's what a
script looks like. Now, how do you make
sure that you have the correct tone? So,
there's five things you can do to
modulate your voice. And three of them
will be fixed. Two of them are variable.
And so, when you're writing a script or
you're observing somebody who's better
than you at selling in order to learn,
these are the five things that you need
to look for. Three, create what I call
sales tone. These are constants. And so,
number one is that you have to speak
loud enough that they can hear you. This
should sound obvious. If they can't hear
you, they can't understand you, they
can't buy from you. Now, this matters
more in person than it does over the
phone because over the phone they can
adjust their volume. In person, it
matters a lot. The second part of sales
tone is that you have to speak slowly
enough that they can comprehend you,
right? If you talk too fast, trust goes
down. If you talk too slow, they think
you're an idiot. And so, you have to hit
the sweet spot, which is typically under
185 words per minute and above 135. So,
that's a bit of the sweet spot. So for
me, I tend to talk fast. And so when I
gave my presentation at the book launch,
which I referenced earlier, I know that
I speak at 185 words per minute. And so
I had to reverse engineer when I knew I
was going to be dropping the link in
order for people to buy at that time
stamp and then knew I had to have this
many words prior to that point. And when
you get consistent with how you speak,
what happens is your sales
conversations, if instead of like, well,
this one took an hour and a half and
this one took 10 minutes, these start to
become more consistent. Now, I said the
first was that you have to speak loud
enough. The second is that you have to
speak at the right speed that they can
actually understand you. The third is
that you have to articulate what you're
saying so that you're rounding out the
words. You're not mumbling. You're
actually saying and pronouncing each
word clearly. So, if you do those three
things, you maximize comprehension. Now,
someone might hear that and think, "Oh,
well, if you do that, you're going to
sound unnatural." Now, the way that you
have a quote natural tone is to have
consistent variability in your speaking
cadence. So, what does that mean? If you
sound like you're reading a script, the
reality is it's because you don't know
the script well enough. And so, you
probably are reading the script. If you
want to sound like you're not reading a
script, stop reading the [__] script.
So, how do you do that? So, this is
scientifically backed. This is one of
the fastest ways to memorize anything.
So you print out two versions of your
script. You're going to have the script
you correct yourself from and then the
script you read from. So here's how the
practice works. This is how I train
sales people. You're going to sit down
and you're going to say the entire
script. You're going to read it out loud
annunciating every word clearly. That's
it. After you finish the entire script,
you're going to have one marker. Looks
like this. And then you'll cross out one
of the words. And then you will read
that document again with the word
missing. Then when you get to the
bottom, you'll go back to the top and
you'll block out a second word. And then
you'll read it again. And by the end of
this process, you will have repeated the
script as many times as there are words
in the script. And guess what happens
when you do that? At the end, you'll be
looking at a blank page that has all
blacked out words and you'll be saying
the script. And so you will no longer be
saying it. You will be breathing the
script, which is the terminology that I
use. The reason this is important is
because if you are selling, the last
thing you should be thinking about is
what you're going to say. You should be
thinking about what the prospect is
saying because a lot of sales is in your
ears, not from your mouth. The person
who speaks the most in the sale loses.
So the idea here is we want them to give
us as much information for us to be on
defense as much as possible, which is
only possible when you actually know the
damn script. And so for us at our team
and for you, you have to keep script as
gold. It has to be paramount. It has to
be no one is above the script because
people fought and died to figure out
these words which we know close
prospects. And if you have different
people saying different things, you
can't do any of this because you can't
even do the basics. So it's like trying
to build a skyscraper on a foundation of
sand. If you can't at least pour
concrete if everyone says the same
words, you don't have a team. And the
reality is this is 95% of sales teams.
And that's why they are not world class.
Now I said there were three things. So
number one, you got to speak loud
enough. Number two, you got to speak at
the right speed. And number three, you
have to articulate every word so they
can understand you. All three of these
around comprehension to make sure that
it sounds natural. You will just always
have variability in how you speak. If
you are not reading something, if you
read something, then you'll sound like
you're reading something because you
don't actually know the words you're
saying and you actually have less
variability in your speaking cadence.
Now, what are the other two variables
that change whereas these three are
constant? The first is pauses.
So, if I want to emphasize a point, what
am I going to do?
I'm going to pause.
And the length of the pause will dictate
whether you're just getting someone to
draw attention or you're expecting a
response. So, a short pause is to draw
attention to a point you make. So, we
have three things that we do here. We
have thing number one that's very
important, thing number two that's very
important, and thing number three that's
very important. And when we pause this
way, people know that we're competent,
but we're also speaking in a way that
they're going to be able to pay
attention and hear what we're saying.
That's number one in terms of the things
you change. The way that we document
this in the script is that I have dot
dot dots to dictate that you have
shorter periods and a full period for a
full stop. And so when you're looking at
a script, you should be able to read it
the way you would read anything. If you
had a dot dot dot, you'd maybe make a
point, take a quick pause, and then get
to the next point. If you have a period,
you have a full stop. Correct? Everyone
with me so far? This is how you have the
first of the elements that draw
attention or get someone to respond. The
second is your frequency on your voice.
Basically, does your voice go up or does
it go down? Now, if we want to have your
voice go up, what would we do in normal
writing? We would put a question mark.
Which means I could have a single word
with a question mark behind it. I might
say John. By saying that, I dictate that
I am asking a question and I'm
soliciting a response from the person.
If I said, "John, I'm clearly not asking
for a response right now." And so, it
would then follow that the most
important time to solicit a response
from a customer would combine the two
things that show the customer that it is
their turn to talk back to us. So, what
would that be? We would have a long
pause and we'd raise our voice. aka you
ask them to buy and you shut the [__]
up. That's how it works. So, the reason
I'm saying this is because some of you
train sales teams, some of you are being
trained by a sales manager. And some of
this language is very confusing. And it
was very confusing to me as I came up as
a salesperson. And as somebody who has
trained many, many, many salespeople,
this is the simplest structure for
getting people to consistently speak in
a way that gets people to buy. And so as
long as you fundamentally know the
script, then the volume, the speed, and
your articulation should be constant.
And the variety that you'll have in
terms of your of your going up and down,
that'll happen normally because you
actually aren't reading it. The actual
words that you'll dictate inside of how
you'll notate it on the script so the
saleserson knows what to say and how to
say it will literally just be these
three punctuations, a period, a dot dot
dot, and a question mark. That's it.
And the reason I wanted to make this
video is because so many people spout so
much [__] and they say so many words
that no one understands that they
themselves have never defined. And so
they're like curiosity tone and you're
like how do I do that with my voice?
Hey, have have ambitious tone. What what
does that mean? You can only do a
certain number of things with your
voice. And so these changes will make
sure you say the words the right way.
And when you say the right words the
right way, you allow the right words to
do their full job the way they were
intended. And by doing it this way, you
will be able to duplicate the same sales
process in the same people. So you can
get more consistent outcomes between
reps and within a rep's career. So if
they go off track, you as a salesperson
or as a sales manager can look at their
can listen to their calls or listen to
their call their you their sales
recordings and say, "Okay, this is the
language I can use to describe the
changes they need to make in order to
improve their conversions. Hey, you're
not speaking loudly enough." Which might
translate in somebody say, "Hey, have
more confidence." It's like, what does
that mean? Speak louder. Okay, cool. you
might be speaking too fast, which they
might say, "Hey, you sound nervous."
You're speaking too fast. Just say that.
Stop sounding nervous is not helpful.
Speak at a slower cadence is helpful.
And so, I would say that from a tactical
perspective, as someone who's trained a
lot of salespeople, the third element I
said about enunciating the words, fully
pronounce each word will automatically
slow someone down who talks too fast
when they are nervous. And the point
that this is most crucial is in the
close. The close is where you need to
manage your tone the most. And that's
typically where people have the highest
emotions, have the highest adrenaline.
Their cortisol is spiking because
they're, you know, their hearts start
fluttering because they're like, I hope
I hope they buy. I hope they buy. I hope
I didn't mess anything up. And then
also, if someone says no in response,
that's when the objection handling comes
in. And if you talk too fast, it can
come off aggressive, right? You talk too
loud and fast, it sounds aggressive.
town too slow. You sound well, you sound
slow. I'll just put it that way. All
right. And so, functionally, big picture
here, the reason the close has the most
pauses and has the one question that
matters is because we want to make sure
that they're paying the most attention
when we're asking them to buy. That's
the point. Now, if you look back at the
pitch that I just did in August for the
book, you'll notice if you look at the
entire 2hour plus thing, where is the
longest pause?
When I ask people to make a decision, to
make a purchase, that's where also
there's tons of research that supports
this. There's three big meta analysis. I
don't remember where they are from.
Colombia is one of them. where they
showed that people who wait up to eight
seconds after asking someone to buy
closed 30%
more sales. Now, the reason that I think
this is very important for anybody who
who sells anyone is that you have to
give people time to process, right? Like
if you ask a question, they have to have
some time to make that decision. So, not
trying to fill the space and allowing
them the room to then respond increases
the likely they close. Many people will
fill the space that you create because
they get nervous or feel awkward in
situations where no one is talking. If
you had to pick between you talking and
them talking, which one do you think
sells them better?
Them talking. Why? Because people
believe what they say. They very believe
very little of what you say. And so the
reason that selling is about asking
questions to get someone to sell
themselves is because the questions lead
them to respond. and their response is
it's what sell them on why they should
buy your thing. This is the point when
you're in the objection handling parts.
So, a little bit later, I'll give you
one more pro tip which is outside of the
scope of this video, but I think you'll
still like it, which is I have spent a
long time creating, you know, scripting
out overcomes for, you know, time. Hey,
I don't have time for this or hey, it's
the wrong time in my life or I got to
talk to my spouse. I need a decision
maker. give me give me a little bit of
time which is a different thing which a
stall this is really expensive which
almost no one ever says they just come
up with other excuses because this is
really expensive is rare now they might
say it's out of my budget or you know I
can't afford this right now blah blah
blah so there's all these different
things that I would try and script to
overcome these particular issues and I
will share something with you that was a
huge aha moment the salespeople who
close the most sales are the sales
people who ask the most times now in
hearing this the immediate response from
a simpleton or a mundane person might
then say, "Oh, well that means that
you're asking me to be a really annoying
salesperson." No. Why would that be?
Because the opposite effect of this is
that people get annoyed when you ask a
lot of times. So, it's a balancing act
between I have to ask as many times as I
can without pissing off the prospect,
which then becomes the skill. The reason
that I believe all of these overcomes
exist is literally just to give you an
excuse to ask again. And so if someone
says I have this issue and you say if we
resolved it in this way would that work?
They might say yes to say want to buy.
And so when we do that, it gives a
reasonable reason for you to make the
ask again, which then translated for me
over time to, oh, so I don't even think
the response to what they're saying,
assuming it's not a true logistical
concern of like I can't make that date
or whatever. So like I I have five
family members and you're trying to sell
me a two-seater and I need the whole
like if it's not a logistical concern,
all the things match their preferences,
but then they're just saying decision
maker, time, money, etc. around the
issue. We can just memorize seven closes
that anyone can learn that are universal
closes. And so I'll give you an example
of one of them, which is whatever reason
they say, you would just take that
reason and say, well, I think I think
maybe that's the the very reason you
should do it. So I don't have time right
now to do XYZ. It's like, well, I think
the fact that you don't have time is
probably the reason you need this more
than anyone else. I don't have money
right now. I think the fact that you
don't have money is probably why you
need to do this more than anyone else.
Because if it's a consumer product, I
would say then it means you're going to
care more than anyone else because
you're going to be so invested in it. If
it's a B2B product, I would say the
reason that you need to do this more
than anyone else because you don't have
the money is because this is exactly
what this B2B thing is supposed to help
you with. You don't have enough
customers. Our SEO is going to help you.
You don't have the the right pricing and
packaging, which is what we're going to
help you with, right? Like the problem
that you're solving to not buy is the
problem that we solve through you
buying.
And so that is one of the seven
universal closes. And so the idea is
instead of trying to get really cute
with, oh, I want to overcome this thing.
I'm going to I'm going to say this and
then say that say, you're never going to
sell someone by being right ever. It's
kind of like winning an argument. No one
wins an argument. They will just feel
bad and hate you, which you don't want.
People don't buy from people they hate.
And so the idea is how can we just
reframe and then ask again and that's
it. And I would say from my experience
and from looking at the sales data we
have, you're only, and as much as people
love to obsess about objection handling,
myself included earlier in my career,
you're really only going to pick up 20
maybe 30% of your sales after the no.
The vast majority of the selling happens
prior to the ask. And so that's two
components. One is everything prior to
them having the conversation with you.
All of that has a larger influence on
selling than the conversation you have.
Now, from the beginning of the
conversation to the close, those things
absolutely do matter. And typically
you'll lose them in discovery. I would
say of the places where most people mess
up the sale, it's going to be discovery.
Most people understand the pitch pretty
well. Closing is fundamentally like if
they say no, then you have objection
handling. The intro is very short. You
should know that like you can breathe
it. Of course, breathing the scrub. But
the discovery, the disco is where most
people mess up. I'll give you a little
pro tip on discovery and then I will
wrap this little tonality guide which is
fundamentally what discovery entails is
that we're trying to match their
problems to our potential products and
solutions. That's all we're doing. And
so we ask them questions like so what
have you done so far to solve this
problem? You know how long have you been
struggling with this XYZ? Right? We try
to ask them questions so that they can
say I have this problem. That's the
whole point. Now, what happens when you
have somebody who's either not very
communicative or somebody who's not that
warm is they're going to give you
one-word answers. They're going to give
you empty empty things that don't give
you enough ammo, enough meat to then
match what they're saying to something
that you sell. The way that you overcome
that is something that I call pulling
teeth, which is you say, "Can you give
me an example of that?" And the
beautiful thing is that you can continue
to repeat that basically over and over
again. So, they say, "Well, you know,
business isn't growing." And you're
like, "Can you give me an example?"
They're like, "Well, I mean, you know,
this year is the same as last year."
You're like, "Okay, can you can you give
me a a specific example of like what's
different between this year and last
year?" They're like, "Well, nothing's
different to do this year and last
year." You're like, "Okay, so breaking
down just like specifics here." So, I'll
alternate between specifics and example,
and you just bounce back and forth
between those things until eventually
they say, "You know what? I I have the
same amount of leads as I did last
year." Okay? And here's the point where
discovery turns valuable. You say once
you've got that meaty thing, you have to
recap or chunk up which is says okay so
you're not getting leads on a consistent
basis. Is that right? Yes. So it sounds
like it sounds like we draw this
inference. It sounds like you have a
marketing issue. Is that fair to say?
Great. What else do you think is holding
back your growth? And so we continue
this cycle and then they and we say
great. Can you be more specific? Can you
give me an example? Can you be specific?
Can you give me another example? You
keep doing that until you have two to
three key points that you have chunked
up. And what do we do when we chunk up
to, oh, it sounds like you have a
marketing problem. Oh, you have a
packaging problem. We're going to chunk
up to the things that we sell. And so
then when we transition, we say, hey,
real quick before I dive in, it sounds
like you said you have inconsistent lead
flows. You have a mark some marketing
issues we got to deal with. We need more
reliability there. You're not making as
much profit as you want per sale. So it
sounds like we have some pricing and
packaging issues. Is that fair? They
say, "Right." Okay. So, if we solve this
marketing and and pricing and package
issue, do you think it would help grow
the business? They say yes. Then we've
they've already accepted the sale. Now,
we say, "Great. Now that you've already
agreed that whatever I'm about to sell
you, you've already would help you grow.
Can I tell you about our thing cuz I
think I think it' help you out given
what you just told me." They'll say yes.
Then you say, "Hey, I'm going to match
the problem you just had, which was so
that for that marketing issue because
you're getting inconsistent lead flow.
Do you think it would help if you sat
down and talked to one of our marketing
directors who did this thing and cured
cancer and was the best marketer in the
world and did $106 million for this book
launch? Do you think you'd be able to
help you grow your $1 million business?
Yeah, I think that would actually that
probably help me out. Great. Problem one
solved. Second issue, but we can't
really do the marketing unless we have
proper pricing so we can increase the
gross margin of the business so we can
propel the machine. Is that right?
Great. So, if we were to have you meet
with our pricing and patching expert,
who only meets with home services
businesses like yours and has done this
for 6 years and has helped over 2,000
businesses, do you think they'd be able
to help you with your pricing and
packing issue? They'll say, "Yeah, I
think so." You say, "Great. Then I think
you'd be a great fit. Ready to rock and
roll?
That's it." Now, at that point, if you
have a quote pitch, then you'd say,
"Hey, the three ways we're going to do
it is this, this, this." that's going to
help you, you know, create or resolve
your constraint or resolve your, you
know, your your overweightness, whatever
it is. And then you make the invitation
and then you shut up. That's it. And so,
fundamentally, the reason that you are
not making as much money as you want is
because you're either saying the wrong
words or you're saying them the wrong
way. And if you use the tone guide that
I just outlined, you'll have the three
constants, which is you speak loud
enough, you speak at the right speed,
and you annunciate every word so they
can understand you. And then the two
things that will only be variable in
your script will be when you pause and
when you raise your voice. That's it.
The rest is hullaloo and mythology. And
this is what creates consistent sales.
Thank you. My name's Ashi. I'll be all
week.